README.md, before:

# Yagi

A modular OpenStack notification event processor/broadcaster written in Python.

Yagi is designed to efficiently gather amqp messages in the json format 
used by OpenStack projects notification busses, from a large and 
configurable number of queues, and proccess them through an extensible
set of simple handlers.

Handlers are simple to write, and can be chained in a WSGI-like architecture.
Yagi handles fetching messages, a batch at a time, and passes fetched 
messages to each handler, handling AMQP message semantics so the handlers 
can concentrate on the task at hand.

In addition, a feed daemon is included that can generate a paged Atom feed 
of notification events that have been persisted in a datastore.

## Available Handlers

* AtomPub: Formats notifications in Atom format, and pushes them to a
           feed server using the AtomPub protocol. Useful with feed 
           servers such as AtomHopper (http://atomhopper.org/)
* Redis:   Persists notifications to a Redis database. Can be used with
           Yagi\'s feed daemon.
* PubSubHubub: Pings a pubsubhubub hub when notifications arrive.
               Together with a hub, and yagi\'s feed daemon, this can 
               enable publish/subscribe subscriptions to notification events.
* StackTackPing: Works with the StackTach openstack monitoring tool to
                 monitor event feeds. If you are using Yagi to provide 
                 feeds of openstack notifications, this will ping
                 stacktach when those feeds are updated, informing it 
                 of the success or failure of the updates, letting you 
                 catch if the feed server is down, or some system is 
                 dropping events.

## Installation and running

The current version of Yagi can be fetched from the code repository 
at: https://github.com/rackerlabs/yagi 

cd to the yagi directory and run:

    sudo python setup.py install

The launch the yagi process:

    yagi-event

An altername config file may be passed to yagi like this:

    yagi-event -c /path/to/config/file

Yagi does not daemonize. use your favorite daemon manager to do that.


## Configuration

A sample yagi.conf can be found in the etc directory.

Sections to note:
* rabbit_broker: Your rabbit connection info goes here.
* event_feed: If using the feed daemon, remember to set the feed_host to
              the name of the host it is running on. This allows yagi 
              to correctly construct links in the feed.
* persistence: If using the redis handler, put your reddisc connection
               info here.
* consumers: the 'queues' config variable lists the queues yagi should
             listen on.
* consumer:$queue_name: For each queue Yagi is listening on there should
                       be a consumer section in the config file 
                       (for example if you have a queue named
                       some.queue listed in the [consumers] section, 
                       there should be a [consumer:some.queue]
                       section with configuration for that specific queue.) 
                       This should list properties
                       for the queue, such as if itshould be durable. 
                       Important variables here are 'apps',
                       which is a comma separated list of handlers that 
                       messages from that queues should be
                       passed to, and 'max_messages' which is the maximum 
                       number of messages that Yagi will pull from that 
                       queue at one time. (it will then go to the next queue,
                       eventually coming back around, if there are still 
                       messages waiting)

Handlers may also have their own, additional configuration.
This is usually found in a section named after the handler (all 
lowercase, one word)

## Scaling

Yagi is designed to scale by running multiple processes. Simply 
launch as many yagi-event processes as
you need to handle your load. (yagi-event is fairly lightweight)

## Dependencies:

* anyjson
* argparse
* feedgenerator
* httplib2
* requests (eventually httplib2 will be replaced with requests)
* redis (if using redis handler)
* webob
* eventlet
* python-dateutil
* daemon
* pubsubhubbub_publish (if using pubsubhubub handler) (available under 
  the publisher_clients folder after checking out the project from 
  [Google Code](http://code.google.com/p/pubsubhubbub/source/checkout)
  NOTE: the plan is to replace this dependency later with our implementation
* carrot (if using Rabbit)
* routes

## Running the feed daemon

Simply run:
    yagi-feed

## Setting up a hub (if using PubSubHubub)

Download the Google App Engine SDK for Linux and add it to your path

    http://code.google.com/appengine/downloads.html

Then checkout the reference hub.

    svn checkout http://pubsubhubbub.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ pubsubhubbub-read-only

Install pubsubhubbub_publisher for python

    cd pubsubhubbub-read-only/publisher_clients/python
    sudo python setup.py install

Start the hub

    cd pubsubhubbub-read-only
    dev_appserver.py hub/ -p<port number specified in yagi.conf>

## Testing subscriptions for PubSubHubub.

    cd yagi

    # You'll want to run this in multiple screen windows or terminal 
    # sessions, as the callback process won't daemonize

    python subscriber/callback.py <sub_port>
    python subscriber/sub.py <topic> <callback> <hub>

    # I usually load other/push_rabbit.py in an iPython session
    cd other
    ipython
    import push_rabbit

    # the cast below is assuming you setting up yagi to listen 
    # on a queue named 'notifications.warn'
    push_rabbit.cast(dict(a=3), 'instance', 'notifications', 'warn')

You should see XML content being pushed to your window running 
callback.py, above.

## Brokers, Consumers and Handlers(Apps)

The top-level object for Yagi is the Event Broker, which is defined in the 
configuration file as:

    [event_worker]
    event_driver = yagi.broker.rabbit.Broker

The Broker will create a Consumer object for each input queue defined. 

    [consumers]
    queues = queue1, queue2

    [consumer:queue1]
    apps = yagi.handler.handler1, myhandlers.handler
    routing_key = notifications.warn

    [consumer:queue2]
    apps = ...

The Consumer grabs the notifications as they come in and give them to the 
handlers for processing. Handlers are also known as apps for legacy reasons.
Handlers are chained together, and it's the responability of the handler
to call child handlers if they think it's appropriate (the default behavior). 
However, some handler may wish to kill the chain on an error some other 
condition. Each handler also gets to process the messages themself. First
notifications are checked against the filter list for that handler and, if
accepted, the `handle_messages()` method is called. Child handlers always get
called unfiltered. 

    [filters]
    cufpub = compute.instance.exists.verified,compute.instance.exists

Currently, filters are applied to all handlers, but this should change to
a per-handler filter list. 

Look at `yagi.handlers.__init__.py` for details.

Commit message:

Add Elasticsearch handler and tests
This commit adds a handler that will push compute.instance.exists,
.verified, and .failed events (distilled) to an Elasticsearch
instance for longer retention and more thorough analysis of any
problems regarding missing events.

Also, if placed in a chain after the cuf_pub_handler, will
generate and push synthetic events corresponding to successfully
published .verified.cuf events.

README.md, after:

# Yagi

A modular OpenStack notification event processor/broadcaster written in Python.

Yagi is designed to efficiently gather amqp messages in the json format 
used by OpenStack projects notification busses, from a large and 
configurable number of queues, and proccess them through an extensible
set of simple handlers.

Handlers are simple to write, and can be chained in a WSGI-like architecture.
Yagi handles fetching messages, a batch at a time, and passes fetched 
messages to each handler, handling AMQP message semantics so the handlers 
can concentrate on the task at hand.

In addition, a feed daemon is included that can generate a paged Atom feed 
of notification events that have been persisted in a datastore.

## Available Handlers

* AtomPub: Formats notifications in Atom format, and pushes them to a
           feed server using the AtomPub protocol. Useful with feed 
           servers such as AtomHopper (http://atomhopper.org/)
* Redis:   Persists notifications to a Redis database. Can be used with
           Yagi\'s feed daemon.
* PubSubHubub: Pings a pubsubhubub hub when notifications arrive.
               Together with a hub, and yagi\'s feed daemon, this can 
               enable publish/subscribe subscriptions to notification events.
* StackTackPing: Works with the StackTach openstack monitoring tool to
                 monitor event feeds. If you are using Yagi to provide 
                 feeds of openstack notifications, this will ping
                 stacktach when those feeds are updated, informing it 
                 of the success or failure of the updates, letting you 
                 catch if the feed server is down, or some system is 
                 dropping events.
* Elasticsearch: Persists distilled compute.instance.exists, .verified, and
                 .failed events to Elasticsearch. Additionally if the CufPub
                 handler is present earlier in the chain pushes synthetic
                 .cuf events as well in response to successful CufPub events.

## Installation and running

The current version of Yagi can be fetched from the code repository 
at: https://github.com/rackerlabs/yagi 

cd to the yagi directory and run:

    sudo python setup.py install

The launch the yagi process:

    yagi-event

An altername config file may be passed to yagi like this:

    yagi-event -c /path/to/config/file

Yagi does not daemonize. use your favorite daemon manager to do that.


## Configuration

A sample yagi.conf can be found in the etc directory.

Sections to note:
* rabbit_broker: Your rabbit connection info goes here.
* event_feed: If using the feed daemon, remember to set the feed_host to
              the name of the host it is running on. This allows yagi 
              to correctly construct links in the feed.
* persistence: If using the redis handler, put your reddisc connection
               info here.
* consumers: the 'queues' config variable lists the queues yagi should
             listen on.
* consumer:$queue_name: For each queue Yagi is listening on there should
                       be a consumer section in the config file 
                       (for example if you have a queue named
                       some.queue listed in the [consumers] section, 
                       there should be a [consumer:some.queue]
                       section with configuration for that specific queue.) 
                       This should list properties
                       for the queue, such as if itshould be durable. 
                       Important variables here are 'apps',
                       which is a comma separated list of handlers that 
                       messages from that queues should be
                       passed to, and 'max_messages' which is the maximum 
                       number of messages that Yagi will pull from that 
                       queue at one time. (it will then go to the next queue,
                       eventually coming back around, if there are still 
                       messages waiting)

Handlers may also have their own, additional configuration.
This is usually found in a section named after the handler (all 
lowercase, one word)

## Scaling

Yagi is designed to scale by running multiple processes. Simply 
launch as many yagi-event processes as
you need to handle your load. (yagi-event is fairly lightweight)

## Dependencies:

* anyjson
* argparse
* feedgenerator
* httplib2
* requests (eventually httplib2 will be replaced with requests)
* redis (if using redis handler)
* webob
* eventlet
* python-dateutil
* daemon
* pubsubhubbub_publish (if using pubsubhubub handler) (available under 
  the publisher_clients folder after checking out the project from 
  [Google Code](http://code.google.com/p/pubsubhubbub/source/checkout)
  NOTE: the plan is to replace this dependency later with our implementation
* carrot (if using Rabbit)
* routes

## Running the feed daemon

Simply run:
    yagi-feed

## Setting up a hub (if using PubSubHubub)

Download the Google App Engine SDK for Linux and add it to your path

    http://code.google.com/appengine/downloads.html

Then checkout the reference hub.

    svn checkout http://pubsubhubbub.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ pubsubhubbub-read-only

Install pubsubhubbub_publisher for python

    cd pubsubhubbub-read-only/publisher_clients/python
    sudo python setup.py install

Start the hub

    cd pubsubhubbub-read-only
    dev_appserver.py hub/ -p<port number specified in yagi.conf>

## Testing subscriptions for PubSubHubub.

    cd yagi

    # You'll want to run this in multiple screen windows or terminal 
    # sessions, as the callback process won't daemonize

    python subscriber/callback.py <sub_port>
    python subscriber/sub.py <topic> <callback> <hub>

    # I usually load other/push_rabbit.py in an iPython session
    cd other
    ipython
    import push_rabbit

    # the cast below is assuming you setting up yagi to listen 
    # on a queue named 'notifications.warn'
    push_rabbit.cast(dict(a=3), 'instance', 'notifications', 'warn')

You should see XML content being pushed to your window running 
callback.py, above.

## Brokers, Consumers and Handlers(Apps)

The top-level object for Yagi is the Event Broker, which is defined in the 
configuration file as:

    [event_worker]
    event_driver = yagi.broker.rabbit.Broker

The Broker will create a Consumer object for each input queue defined. 

    [consumers]
    queues = queue1, queue2

    [consumer:queue1]
    apps = yagi.handler.handler1, myhandlers.handler
    routing_key = notifications.warn

    [consumer:queue2]
    apps = ...

The Consumer grabs the notifications as they come in and give them to the 
handlers for processing. Handlers are also known as apps for legacy reasons.
Handlers are chained together, and it's the responability of the handler
to call child handlers if they think it's appropriate (the default behavior). 
However, some handler may wish to kill the chain on an error some other 
condition. Each handler also gets to process the messages themself. First
notifications are checked against the filter list for that handler and, if
accepted, the `handle_messages()` method is called. Child handlers always get
called unfiltered. 

    [filters]
    cufpub = compute.instance.exists.verified,compute.instance.exists

Currently, filters are applied to all handlers, but this should change to
a per-handler filter list. 

Look at `yagi.handlers.__init__.py` for details.
